---
permalink: /
title: "About"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

## About Me

Hey there, I’m Siddhant Waghjale! 👋  
I’m currently pursuing my Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems at Carnegie Mellon University’s School of Computer Science, with a specialization in Machine Learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP). My academic journey is deeply rooted in pushing the boundaries of AI and its applications to solve complex real-world problems.

### Current Research
I’m currently working on an exciting research project titled **ECCO: Can We Improve Model-Generated Code Efficiency Without Sacrificing Functional Correctness?**, under the guidance of Professor Daniel Fried. This project is at the forefront of AI-assisted software development, where we explore innovative ways to enhance the efficiency of code generated by Large Language Models (LLMs). Our approach is multifaceted, and we're particularly focused on a self-refine methodology that aims to bridge the gap between AI-generated code and human-level efficiency.

### Academic Background
At CMU, I've delved deep into advanced courses such as Advanced Natural Language Processing, Question Answering, Multimodal Machine Learning, Neural Code-Generation, and Visual Learning & Representations. These courses have not only expanded my theoretical knowledge but also provided me with hands-on experience in cutting-edge AI technologies.

I hold a Bachelor’s degree in Information Technology from the National Institute of Technology, Karnataka (NITK), where I developed a strong foundation in the field of computer science and engineering.

### Professional Experience
Prior to joining CMU, I spent three years as a Machine Learning Research Engineer in India, where I had the privilege of starting and leading the Conversational AI team at Kaleyra. In this role, I led the development of a scalable chatbot with advanced Natural Language Understanding (NLU) capabilities using Transformers, which now serves 10 million customers daily. My work also extended to engineering spam detection engines using BERT and optimizing models with ONNX for substantial improvements in latency and throughput.

Most recently, I interned at Tesla's Autopilot division in Palo Alto, where I developed an **AI-Oncall ChatBot** that resolved 50% of user queries without human intervention, significantly reducing the workload on human engineers. I also enhanced the performance of Tesla’s SDK by improving caching logic and optimizing the extraction process, achieving a 60x reduction in download and extraction time.

### Publications & Projects
My research has been recognized in various academic circles, and I'm currently awaiting the review of our paper on the ECCO project. My academic projects include work on multimodal visual reasoning, multi-table question answering, and detecting LLM-generated text in multilingual and multi-domain settings. These projects have allowed me to apply my skills to real-world problems and contribute to the advancement of AI technology.

### Skills & Interests
I’m proficient in languages like Python, Golang, and C++, and have extensive experience with libraries and frameworks such as PyTorch, TensorFlow, Keras, Langchain, Scikit-Learn, and Huggingface. My expertise also extends to databases and message-brokers like MongoDB, Redis, and RabbitMQ.

### Let’s Connect!
I’m passionate about the transformative power of AI and am always open to collaborations, discussions, and new challenges. Whether it’s about improving code generation efficiency, enhancing natural language understanding, or developing novel multimodal AI systems, I’m excited to explore the possibilities that lie ahead.

Feel free to explore my [projects and publications](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.14044) and connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/siddhant-waghjale/). Let’s discuss AI, research opportunities, or potential collaborations!

